[Music]
there are several recipes I've done
using paneer and paneer is one
ingredient that we can really make a
number of recipes with and today I'm
going to show you guys a very simple and
delicious paneer bhurji
so let's get started and check out the
recipe take a kadai add 1 tablespoon of
oil and 1 TSP of ghee to this add 1/2
TSP cumin seeds 1/2 tsp salt of fennel
seeds next add 2 medium sized onions
chopped 2 large green chilies chopped
[Music]
once the onions have turned transparent
add one medium sized capsicum that's
been cut into small pieces I'm pounding
a piece of ginger and three cloves of
garlic add the pound ginger garlic
adding freshly found ginger garlic gives
a fantastic taste and aroma to any dish
saute for about two minutes for the raw
smell to go next add 1 large tomato
finely chopped
[Music]
now I'm going to add one teaspoon of
salt quarter teaspoon turmeric powder 2
teaspoons Kashmiri red chilli powder 1
teaspoon cumin powder 1 TSP coriander
powder after adding all the masala
powders mix it well and cook for about 2
minutes while cooking the masala I'm
just going to quickly crumble the paneer
pieces I have taken 200 grams of paneer
for this recipe so just cut it into
pieces and crumble then you can just
roughly crumble it with your hands like
this
[Music]
so before adding the paneer make sure
the masala is ready and all the raw
smell is gone because bunny doesn't take
too long to poop so you can see the
masala has come together beautifully
[Music]
after adding the bunny
give it a quick mix
I'm just going to add quantities for off
you gara masala powder like I said funny
does not require too much time to cook
so you don't want to cook it for too
long because it can become very dry
finally garnish it with the juice of
half lemon and some freshly chopped
coriander leaves the paneer bhurji is
done it looks absolutely delicious so
there you go here is this very simple
yet delicious paneer bhurji
now this makes for also for a great
lunchbox recipe now you can make this
paneer bhurji with a nice chapatis or
rotis and you can pack them for lunch
you can garnish it with some nice
coriander leaves and serve it hot you
can get a copy of first edition of the
home cooking book on very once
